# Hospital-Managements
Hospital Management is a new theory in management faculty. Earlier a senior doctor used to perform the role of a hospital manager. However, nowadays everything demands a specialist. Almost all the things related to hospital have changed. Many categories concerning medical sciences and hospital have altered totally. There are various types of hospitals today, including ordinary hospitals, specialty hospitals and super specialty hospitals. The categories are regarding to the types of facilities they offer to the people. Eligible professionals are needed for the smooth operating of a hospital. Various courses and training programs have been developed to find out eligible hospital managers. Such professionals are well trained to solve the rising challenges and specific necessities of modern day hospitals. The Hospital Management courses are open to non-medical background graduates also. In recent times, health care concept of the people have undergone a tremendous change which has lead to higher expectations and an increased demand for high quality medical care and facilities. Here comes the importance of Health/ Hospital Management. It is the latest concept in the field of management and one of the most lucrative and important careers in the health sector. According to a recent US survey, Hospital management is one among the top ten millennium professions which provides a direct link between 8 healthcare facilities and those supplying the services they need. A career in Hospital Management involves ensuring effective utilization of physical and financial resources of the hospital as well as creating an organizational climate beneficial to the growth and development of the personnel. It is a difficult, challenging, responsible and more over, a demanding job. A hospital manager is in a way responsible for administrative dealings of the hospital. He accepts the charge of various aspects of hospital management and health administration reverencing to the patients and healthcare. Professional services of trained manpower namely Hospital administrators/ managers have now become essential to manage hospitals and medical facilities. It is the hospital administrators/ managers who manage hospitals, outpatient clinics, hospices, drugabuse treatment centers etc. They would be responsible for overall patient care, education, research and community health care associated with the organization, and make sure that they conform to the rules of the Hospital. These people with the help of a team of assistants look after the administrative affairs i.e. plan coordinate and direct the delivery of health services within a hospital. In early days, senior doctors used to perform the role of a hospital manager. But now things have changed and the services of these qualified professionals are required for the smooth functioning of hospitals. The services of these professionals go a long way in making the hospital more productive, profitable and comfortable for the patients.
